docs/source/fundamentals/services.md, before:

(services)=

# Services

```{eval-rst}
.. meta::
   :description: This page contains information about how to use services in Orchest.
```

_Services_ allow you to run a service, e.g. a database, Redis instance or Tensorboard, as part of
your pipeline. To ease development, services have a lifetime that spans across the entire
{term}`session <interactive session>`. Services can be configured to persist to disk and to be
reachable from your browser.

```{figure} ../img/services-pointer.png
:align: center
:width: 600
:alt: List of running services from the Orchest pipeline editor
```

```{warning}
🚨 Since the services lifetime span the interactive session,
every time it stops all the state of the services is deleted.
If you need to store persistent data, use an external database.
```

(services-templates)=

## Ready to go service templates

For ease of use, we provide some commonly used services as templates:

```{figure} ../img/services.png
:align: center
:width: 400
:alt: Ready to go service templates in Orchest
```

Tensorboard, Streamlit and VSCode are set up to be reachable from your browser, the link will be
available both in the pipeline editor under `services` and in the service configuration settings.
Redis will only be reachable from within Orchest, i.e. from pipeline steps, notebooks
and other services.

(creating-service)=

## Creating a service in Orchest

If none of the service templates work for you, you can create your own services.
After going to `pipeline settings` > `services` > `add service`, you will
have the option to create a custom service, where you can pin down your specs.

### Required fields

**name**

: The name of the server.

**image**

: The image to use for the service.

### Non required fields

**command**

: Service start command, e.g. what process the service will run.

**args**

: Arguments to pass to the command. For example, if the `command` is
equal to `bash`, `args` could be `-c "echo hello"`. This would
be equivalent to `bash -c "echo hello"`.

**environment variables**

: Key-value pairs of environment variables. While project and pipeline environment variables are
considered as `secrets`, services environment variables aren't and will be persisted in the
pipeline definition file.

**inherited environment variables**

: A list of environment variable names that will be inherited from the project and pipeline
environment variables, and from job environment variables when run in a job. These variables
take priority over the service environment variables in case of name collisions.

**scope**

: Specifies whether the service should be running in interactive mode, jobs, or both.

**project directory mount**

: To bind a service file system path to the directory of the project. This will allow the service
to read or write to the project directory. See the VS-Code template for an example.

**data directory mount**

: To bind a service file system path to the Orchest `/data` directory.

**ports**

: The ports that the service will be listening on when it comes to external connectivity. You
don't have to add any port if you are only interested in a service being reachable by Notebooks
and pipeline steps, which we refer to as internal connectivity. A service that has defined ports
will be reachable from outside of Orchest through a special URL, **on all ports**. Currently,
only the `http` protocol is supported. The URL(s) through which you can connect to an externally
reachable service is shown in the service settings and the pipeline editor, through the
`SERVICES` button.

**preserve base path**

: Some applications use relative paths when it comes to handling URLS, e.g. for web page assets
such as images, javascript code, and CSS. Others will expect the base path to be preserved when
being proxied. The need for toggling this is based on the specific application at hand, and it's
only of interest for external connectivity.

```{tip}
👉 Most services that run some sort of server are already set to bind to the required interfaces
to expose said server. This might not be always the case and so you have to explicitly set it
while changing the **command**. The way bindings are set is application dependant, for example,
`Tensorboard` provides the flag `--bind_all` to bind on all interfaces.
```

### Connectivity

Connection details for configured services can be obtained using the
{py:meth}`orchest.services.get_service` function. For example, after adding Redis as service,
you can use the following snippets of code to verify connectivity, assuming `redis-py` has been
installed in the environment used by the step (see the {ref}`environments <environments>` section):

```python
import orchest
import redis

redis_host = orchest.get_service("redis")["internal_hostname"]
redis_client = redis.Redis(host=redis_host, port=6379, db=0)
redis_client.set("hello", "there")
redis_client.get("hello")
```

## Permissions of files written by a service

If you make use of the project or data directory mounts, you need make sure that data is written
with the correct permissions. This can be done by changing the `umask` of the container process.

Let's take, for example, the `Tensorboard` template. Normally, the command would look like
`tensorboard --logdir /data --bind_all` but this would cause issues with file permissions on the
host. In the `Tensorboard` template we solve this as follows:

- setting the command as `bash`
- setting the service args as `-c 'umask 002 && tensorboard --logdir /data --bind_all'`

(orchest-environments-as-services)=

## Orchest environments as services

It might be the case that a predefined image from DockerHub does not cover your needs. For example,
you might need to install an additional package or set some configuration files. That is why we
allow a service to be defined by an Orchest environment. This way you can iterate on and customize
any service without the burden of interacting with Docker or pushing to an image repository.
Everything can be done through the easy interface of Orchest.

See the {ref}`environments <environments>` section for details on how to build an environment.

### Creating a custom service

We will explain how to add a custom service by following an example: creating your custom
[streamlit](https://github.com/streamlit/streamlit) service.

As was said in the previous section, we will create a new environment containing streamlit, which we
will then configure as a service. So first, create an {ref}`environment <environments>` and install
the needed dependencies (in this example I am using `orchest/base-kernel-py` as the base image) in
the _set-up script_:

```bash
pip install --upgrade protobuf
pip install streamlit
```

Now we can configure a custom service with hot reloading of a `streamlit.py` file in our project
directory. Open up the pipeline for which you want to create the service and follow the steps below:

1. Go to _Services_ > _Edit Services_ > _Add service_ > _Streamlit_. Next we will change the
   configuration of the service.
2. Replace the _Image_ by your custom environment.
3. Change the _Command (optional)_ in _Start behavior_ to: `-c 'umask 002 && streamlit run /project-dir/streamlit.py'`
4. Change _Project directory (optional)_ under _Mounts_ to: `/project-dir`
5. Add a file called `streamlit.py` in your project directory. You can do this through the
   JupyterLab UI.
6. Restart the session for the changes to your service configuration to take effect.
7. You should now be able to visit your streamlit dashboard.

Example `streamlit.py`:

```python
import streamlit as st
st.title("Hello Streamlit")
```

Commit message:

removing orchest references in docs

docs/source/fundamentals/services.md, after:

(services)=

# Services

```{eval-rst}
.. meta::
   :description: This page contains information about how to use services in Dadosfera AI.
```

_Services_ allow you to run a service, e.g. a database, Redis instance or Tensorboard, as part of
your pipeline. To ease development, services have a lifetime that spans across the entire
{term}`session <interactive session>`. Services can be configured to persist to disk and to be
reachable from your browser.

```{figure} ../img/services-pointer.png
:align: center
:width: 600
:alt: List of running services from the Dadosfera AI pipeline editor
```

```{warning}
🚨 Since the services lifetime span the interactive session,
every time it stops all the state of the services is deleted.
If you need to store persistent data, use an external database.
```

(services-templates)=

## Ready to go service templates

For ease of use, we provide some commonly used services as templates:

```{figure} ../img/services.png
:align: center
:width: 400
:alt: Ready to go service templates in Dadosfera AI
```

Tensorboard, Streamlit and VSCode are set up to be reachable from your browser, the link will be
available both in the pipeline editor under `services` and in the service configuration settings.
Redis will only be reachable from within Dadosfera AI, i.e. from pipeline steps, notebooks
and other services.

(creating-service)=

## Creating a service in Dadosfera AI

If none of the service templates work for you, you can create your own services.
After going to `pipeline settings` > `services` > `add service`, you will
have the option to create a custom service, where you can pin down your specs.

### Required fields

**name**

: The name of the server.

**image**

: The image to use for the service.

### Non required fields

**command**

: Service start command, e.g. what process the service will run.

**args**

: Arguments to pass to the command. For example, if the `command` is
equal to `bash`, `args` could be `-c "echo hello"`. This would
be equivalent to `bash -c "echo hello"`.

**environment variables**

: Key-value pairs of environment variables. While project and pipeline environment variables are
considered as `secrets`, services environment variables aren't and will be persisted in the
pipeline definition file.

**inherited environment variables**

: A list of environment variable names that will be inherited from the project and pipeline
environment variables, and from job environment variables when run in a job. These variables
take priority over the service environment variables in case of name collisions.

**scope**

: Specifies whether the service should be running in interactive mode, jobs, or both.

**project directory mount**

: To bind a service file system path to the directory of the project. This will allow the service
to read or write to the project directory. See the VS-Code template for an example.

**data directory mount**

: To bind a service file system path to the Dadosfera AI `/data` directory.

**ports**

: The ports that the service will be listening on when it comes to external connectivity. You
don't have to add any port if you are only interested in a service being reachable by Notebooks
and pipeline steps, which we refer to as internal connectivity. A service that has defined ports
will be reachable from outside of Dadosfera AI through a special URL, **on all ports**. Currently,
only the `http` protocol is supported. The URL(s) through which you can connect to an externally
reachable service is shown in the service settings and the pipeline editor, through the
`SERVICES` button.

**preserve base path**

: Some applications use relative paths when it comes to handling URLS, e.g. for web page assets
such as images, javascript code, and CSS. Others will expect the base path to be preserved when
being proxied. The need for toggling this is based on the specific application at hand, and it's
only of interest for external connectivity.

```{tip}
👉 Most services that run some sort of server are already set to bind to the required interfaces
to expose said server. This might not be always the case and so you have to explicitly set it
while changing the **command**. The way bindings are set is application dependant, for example,
`Tensorboard` provides the flag `--bind_all` to bind on all interfaces.
```

### Connectivity

Connection details for configured services can be obtained using the
{py:meth}`orchest.services.get_service` function. For example, after adding Redis as service,
you can use the following snippets of code to verify connectivity, assuming `redis-py` has been
installed in the environment used by the step (see the {ref}`environments <environments>` section):

```python
import orchest
import redis

redis_host = orchest.get_service("redis")["internal_hostname"]
redis_client = redis.Redis(host=redis_host, port=6379, db=0)
redis_client.set("hello", "there")
redis_client.get("hello")
```

## Permissions of files written by a service

If you make use of the project or data directory mounts, you need make sure that data is written
with the correct permissions. This can be done by changing the `umask` of the container process.

Let's take, for example, the `Tensorboard` template. Normally, the command would look like
`tensorboard --logdir /data --bind_all` but this would cause issues with file permissions on the
host. In the `Tensorboard` template we solve this as follows:

- setting the command as `bash`
- setting the service args as `-c 'umask 002 && tensorboard --logdir /data --bind_all'`

(dadosfera-ai-environments-as-services)=

## Dadosfera AI environments as services

It might be the case that a predefined image from DockerHub does not cover your needs. For example,
you might need to install an additional package or set some configuration files. That is why we
allow a service to be defined by a Dadosfera AI environment. This way you can iterate on and customize
any service without the burden of interacting with Docker or pushing to an image repository.
Everything can be done through the easy interface of Dadosfera AI.

See the {ref}`environments <environments>` section for details on how to build an environment.

### Creating a custom service

We will explain how to add a custom service by following an example: creating your custom
[streamlit](https://github.com/streamlit/streamlit) service.

As was said in the previous section, we will create a new environment containing streamlit, which we
will then configure as a service. So first, create an {ref}`environment <environments>` and install
the needed dependencies (in this example I am using `orchest/base-kernel-py` as the base image) in
the _set-up script_:

```bash
pip install --upgrade protobuf
pip install streamlit
```

Now we can configure a custom service with hot reloading of a `streamlit.py` file in our project
directory. Open up the pipeline for which you want to create the service and follow the steps below:

1. Go to _Services_ > _Edit Services_ > _Add service_ > _Streamlit_. Next we will change the
   configuration of the service.
2. Replace the _Image_ by your custom environment.
3. Change the _Command (optional)_ in _Start behavior_ to: `-c 'umask 002 && streamlit run /project-dir/streamlit.py'`
4. Change _Project directory (optional)_ under _Mounts_ to: `/project-dir`
5. Add a file called `streamlit.py` in your project directory. You can do this through the
   JupyterLab UI.
6. Restart the session for the changes to your service configuration to take effect.
7. You should now be able to visit your streamlit dashboard.

Example `streamlit.py`:

```python
import streamlit as st
st.title("Hello Streamlit")
```
